Adding FAQ and Getting Started landing page (#50)
risc0/website: docs/faq.md

# FAQ

-------------------------------
## Contents
* [ZKP System](#zkp-system)
* [Code Project Help](#code-project-help)
* [Guest/Host Interactions](#guest--host-interactions)
* [Data Processing & Performance](#data-processing--performance)

-------------------------------

## ZKP System
<details closed>
<summary>Q:
What is a zero-knowledge proof?
</summary>
<br/>
A:

> To simplify slightly, zero-knowledge proofs are a protocol between a 'prover' and a 'verifier'.  With this protocol, the prover can run an agreed-upon function F, passing it secret input and generating both a public output and a 'receipt' of F’s correct execution.  The prover can send this receipt to the verifier, who can then check it, and presuming it checks correctly, the verifier can be very sure that prover ran the function correctly and that it produced a specific output.

Reviewer: For me this entry didn't get to the point quite as quickly as many of the other entries. I also read it to imply that ZKPs in general (not just from RISC Zero) are about proving correct execution.

What would you think about quoting Wikipedia for the first sentence (as they've had time and many eyeballs to perfect their wording), then have a couple sentences and perhaps a link on our use of specific zero-knowledge proofs?
```suggestion
A zero-knowledge proof (or ZKP) is a protocol allowing ["one party (the prover) [to] prove to another party (the verifier) that a given statement is true [without] conveying any additional information"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-knowledge_proof). In the specific case of the RISC Zero ZKP system, the prover can run an agreed-upon function F, passing it secret input and generating both a public output and a 'receipt' of F’s correct execution.  The prover can send this receipt to the verifier, who can then check it, and presuming it checks correctly, the verifier can be very sure that prover ran the function correctly and that it produced a specific output. See [our explainer on the RISC Zero ZKP system](explainers/proof-system/proof-system-sequence-diagram.md) for more details.
```
I'm not sure if I formatted the links correctly...

Reviewer: This seems to have been reverted in the no_std faq update commit, was that intentional?

</details>
 <br/>

<details closed>
<summary>
Q: How did you make your RISC-V circuit?
</summary>
 <br/>

> A: The RISC-V circuit is found in step.cpp.inc and is generated by the make-circuit program. It consists of:

Reviewer: Are step.cpp.inc and the make-circuit program stable enough that we can link to them here?

Reviewer 2: They will be replaced soon with the new cirgen rust-based crates. Also, `step.cpp.inc` is generated, so there's nothing to link to AFAICT

> * Code to emulate RISC-V, including deciphering internal state and constructing the execution trace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Code to emulate RISC-V, including decoding RISC-V instructions and constructing the execution trace.
```

> A zero-knowledge proof (or ZKP) is a protocol allowing <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-knowledge_proof">"one party (the prover) [to] prove to another party (the verifier) that a given statement is true [without] conveying any additional information"</a>. In the specific case of the RISC Zero ZKP system, the prover can run an agreed-upon function F, passing it secret input and generating both a public output and a 'receipt' of F’s correct execution.  The prover can send this receipt to the verifier, who can then check it, and presuming it checks correctly, the verifier can be very sure that prover ran the function correctly and that it produced a specific output. See <a href="https://risczero.com/docs/explainers/proof-system/proof-system-sequence-diagram.md">our explainer on the RISC Zero ZKP system</a> for more details.

Reviewer 3: second link is dead

Reviewer 3: you can remove .md from the url: https://risczero.com/docs/explainers/proof-system/proof-system-sequence-diagram

Reviewer 3: also I'd throw the period inside the quotation mark on the first link.

* Code to evaluate the constraint polynomials that check the execution trace.

> * Auxiliary data to support structures such as ‘taps’.

Reviewer 2: Mentioning 'taps' here just raises more questions I think.

Reviewer 3: I agree with this feedback; we don't have any reference documentation on taps and this opens up questions we're not ready to answer.

Because the data structures supporting all three of these need to match very carefully, we created a ‘circuit compiler’ program that generates code for all three of these systems.
</details>
<br/>
<details closed>
<summary>
Q:
What exactly is the method ID and how do I know it will change if the program code is altered?
</summary>
 <br/>
 A:

> The method ID is the Merkle root for the ‘code’ columns of the proof system. If the ASM changes, then the Merkle root is guaranteed to change by the properties of Merkle trees and it is cryptographically infeasible to create colliding method IDs.

Reviewer 2: It's actually a table (e.g. vector) of merkle root hashes, one for each power of 2 sized program.

I'd drop the use of 'ASM', it's not clear what that means (perhaps you meant assembly). In any case, I'd say, "if the source code changes", and it's not really due to a property of merkle trees, rather it's that we're using a cryptographic hash (SHA256).

</details>
<br/>
-------------------------------

## Code Project Help

<details closed>
<summary>
Q:
What do I do with the proof receipt once I’ve created it?
</summary>
 <br/>
A:
The receipt can be serialized and sent over the network to the verifier. The verifier does not need to have access to the host code, but they do need:

> * The method ID of the program (generated by compiling a binary of the trusted zkVM program)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

* The method ID of the program (generated by compiling a binary of the trusted zkVM program)
```

Reviewer 4: Whitespace

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/282664/179047160-68509795-8dc2-4079-834e-8dcd00cceca9.png)

* Code that runs the receipt.verify() function

>  In our code examples, the proof receipt is generated and verified within the same program, but the most common use case is one in which the verification happens on another system.

Reviewer: This is important and I'm glad to see it pointed out here!

As a definitely-not-for-this-commit thought, I wonder if we eventually want a two-program example to illustrate that receipts are typically transferred. That's a _lot_ of complexity in the example for a pretty simple point, but it's also an important point, so it may be worth (eventually) doing.

Author: I love this point and had thoughts about doing this in my password example but it was out of scope. In the Rust starter example it was also decided that it would make it less simple, since minimalism is the entire purpose of that repo. But it belongs in a place we can show it off. I'd love to add it on somewhere and do a little docs writeup if we've stabilized on method ID interactions.

My thoughts for simplicity was write receipt to file instead of network serialization. And it probably wouldn't be too odd to make the receive-and-validate program kick off the execute-and-generate-receipt program, so you could still push a single button to kick things off. So really what's left is recipient grabbing the method ID.

Relatedly, I think the strongest educational value in having the programs be separate is showing the steps we expect a recipient to go through for getting the guest program's method ID. In practice a real recipient might have this as a static comparison rather than generating every time, but they'd still need this process at least once and it's so fundamental to real use cases. Also, beyond strictly educating, a big part of the magic (to my beginner-ish perspective) is not having to execute a program ourselves just to verify someone else's execution. So the two-program example, while not adding much technical, would add magic.

Reviewer 2: The battleship example does serialize the receipt and send it over the NEAR blockchain.

Also the goal of the starter is so that devs can clone it and be ready to go. Since sharing state between multiple machines is very application specific, we didn't want to include it in the starter.

</details>
<br/>
<details closed>
<summary>
Q: What types of operations does the zkVM support in Rust?
</summary>
<br/>

> A: The zkVM has begun to support std, but if you run into issues, we recommend using any crates that work with no_std.

Reviewer: It might be nice to start with a positive answer to this question. I'm not familiar enough with Rust to know exactly how to word it, but something to the effect of "we support Rust builtins; however the zkVM is similar to an embedded environment and more complex packages my encounter issues." and then continue with the current "begun to support std" sentence.

Author: I've modified this answer gently but tagging in @flaub to ask how strongly we'd like to claim we support std.

> A: The zkVM experimentally supports the Rust standard library. If you run into issues, we recommend using crates with no_std options.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A: The zkVM has experimental support for the Rust standard library. If you run into issues, we recommend using crates with no_std options. You may also find a solution in our Discord or GitHub issues.
```

</details>
<br/>
-------------------------------

## Guest / Host Interactions
<details closed>
<summary>

> Q: If the guest zkVM lives on the host machine, can’t the host still tamper with the compiled code?

Reviewer 2: Note that the host *can* tamper with the inputs that a guest reads. So you need to run your zkVM in a trusted environment.

</summary>
<br/>
A: Like other zk-STARKs, RISC Zero’s implementation makes it cryptographically infeasable to generate an invalid receipt:

>     * If the binary is modified, then the receipt’s seal will not match the method ID of the expected binary.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

    * If the binary is modified, then the receipt’s seal will not match the method ID of the expected binary.
```

Reviewer 4: Whitespace
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/282664/179047649-7e0a1b4e-d8a3-428a-abc1-7602a53039a3.png)

* If the execution is modified, then the execution trace will be invalid.

> * If the output is modified, then the journal’s hash will not match the hash recorded in the receipt.

Reviewer: Another case of misformatted bullets in the preview deployment. They seem to be working correctly on lines 31-33 -- I'm not sure what's different / wrong in these later cases.

</details>
<br/>
<details closed>
<summary>

> Q:  Why does all information need to be loaded at the start of guest zkVM execution? How does loading data invalidate the receipt?

Reviewer: Excellent question to include!

Reviewer 2: Not all data has to be loaded a the start of the zkVM. It can be loaded interactively later than at the start. There might be complex logic that runs that decides to query one oracle vs another within the guest execution. It's just that so far all our examples have loaded data up front.

Reviewer 5: Thanks @flaub ! After re-reading I see where I misunderstood. It's entirely allowed to pull in data from the host, it's just not recommended. I'll modify this to say "does all information need to be loaded...". Noting instead that it is possible to excessively trust data from the host, but workarounds exist such as Merkle proofs of potential incoming data etc.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't say it's not recommended. It's just that we haven't had a use case or example that does this yet.

</summary>
 <br/> 
A: 

> Data is sent from the host to the guest via a memory map, but data shared this way cannot change during execution. The validity of the proof relies on its ability to guarantee that code executed in the prover has not been modified; we can think of adding live data here as a form of tampering that invalidates the proof transcript.

Reviewer: Maybe the following is clearer, maybe not (and if we do want to use it I'd like someone else to verify I didn't misword it in a way that's inaccurate):
```suggestion
Data is sent from the host to the guest via a memory map, but data shared this way cannot change during execution. The validity of the proof relies on its ability to guarantee that code executed in the prover has not been modified; allowing the loading of live data here would enable the very sort of tampering we are proving has not occurred!
```

> Data is sent from the host to the guest via a memory map, but data shared this way cannot change during execution. The validity of the proof relies on its ability to guarantee that code executed in the prover has not been modified; we can think of adding live data here as a form of tampering that invalidates the proof transcript.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I don't this this is right. Live data is fine, it doesn't need to be known before the start of the zkVM. The only requirement is that if the host writes to a certain location in memory, then the host is not allowed to modify this value ever again (it's Write-Once Memory, aka WOM). But it's OK for the guest to query for data from the host that gets computed on the fly or gets retrieved from an arbitrary source (a DB, web page, etc).

</details>
<br/>
<details closed>
<summary>
Q:

> How do I know which computations should be performed in the guest zkVM, and which can be offloaded to the host?

Reviewer: Another good question! (and answer)

</details>
<br/>
-------------------------------

## Data Processing & Performance
 <br/>
<details closed>
<summary>
Q:
If I can’t change guest data during execution, I might be constrained by space limitations. What if I want to include a large amount of data in my proof of computation?
</summary>
 <br/>
 
A:
There are workarounds for space limitations if the data is included primarily to ensure that the data’s integrity becomes part of the proof of computation. If the data can be processed externally and just needs to be verifiably unchanged, consider processing data externally and sending a Merkle proof to the guest. If no processing is required, consider generating a SHA of a large dataset.
</details>
 <br/>
 
<details closed>
<summary>
Q:
What is the current recommended size of a program running on the zkVM?
</summary>
<br/>
A:

> Although the theoretical maximum size is 128 MB, we recommend that programs be kept no larger than ~1 MB to run on RISC Zero’s current zkVM implementation.

Reviewer 2: The maximum code size was 2^20 (1MB) but has been bumped up to 2^24 (16MB). To make use of code larger than 2^20 (the default), the MethodID has to be configured to use a larger limit (see: https://github.com/risc0/risc0/pull/203). BTW, this feature hasn't been released yet.

Reviewer 5: Ok! I'll update and make note that this is an upcoming feature.

</summary>
<br/>
A:
To simplify slightly, zero-knowledge proofs are a protocol between a 'prover' and a 'verifier'.  With this protocol, the prover can run an agreed-upon function F, passing it secret input and generating both a public output and a 'receipt' of F’s correct execution.  The prover can send this receipt to the verifier, who can then check it, and presuming it checks correctly, the verifier can be very sure that prover ran the function correctly and that it produced a specific output.
</details>
 <br/>

<details closed>
<summary>
Q: How did you make your RISC-V circuit?
</summary>
 <br/>

A: The RISC-V circuit is found in step.cpp.inc and is generated by the make-circuit program. It consists of:
* Code to emulate RISC-V, including deciphering internal state and constructing the execution trace.
* Code to evaluate the constraint polynomials that check the execution trace.
* Auxiliary data to support structures such as ‘taps’.

Because the data structures supporting all three of these need to match very carefully, we created a ‘circuit compiler’ program that generates code for all three of these systems.
</details>
<br/>
<details closed>
<summary>
Q:

> What exactly is the method ID and how do I know it will change if the program ASM is altered?

Reviewer 3: would prefer to avoid undefined acronyms

Reviewer 2: maybe just say "program code" instead of ASM

</summary>
 <br/>
 A:
The method ID is the Merkle root for the ‘code’ columns of the proof system. If the ASM changes, then the Merkle root is guaranteed to change by the properties of Merkle trees and it is cryptographically infeasible to create colliding method IDs.
</details>
<br/>
-------------------------------

> ## Cryptography

Reviewer 3: delete empty section

-------------------------------

## Code Project Help

<details closed>
<summary>
Q:

> What do I do with the proof receipt once I’ve created it?

Reviewer 3: love this

</summary>
 <br/>
A:
The receipt can be serialized and sent over the network to the verifier. The verifier does not need to have access to the host code, but they do need:
* The method ID of the program (generated by compiling a binary of the trusted zkVM program)
* Code that runs the receipt.verify() function

 In our code examples, the proof receipt is generated and verified within the same program, but the most common use case is one in which the verification happens on another system.
</details>
<br/>
<details closed>
<summary>
Q: What types of operations does the zkVM support in Rust?
</summary>
<br/>

> A: Currently the zkVM does not support std, but any crates that work with no_std should be fine. There are sometimes multiple versions of crates and it is necessary to disable certain features. For more information, see this guide.

Reviewer 3: what guide?

Author: No guide but we do support std now, updating this section

<details closed>
<summary>
Q: If the guest zkVM lives on the host machine, can’t the host still tamper with the compiled code?
</summary>
<br/>
A: Like other zk-STARKs, RISC Zero’s implementation makes it cryptographically infeasable to generate an invalid receipt:
* If the binary is modified, then the receipt’s method ID will not match the method ID expected.
* If the execution is modified, then the execution trace will be invalid.
* If the output is modified, then the journal’s hash will not match the hash recorded in the receipt.
</details>
<br/>
<details closed>
<summary>
Q:  Why does all information need to be loaded at the start of guest zkVM execution? How does loading data invalidate the receipt?
</summary>
 <br/> 
A: 
Data is sent from the host to the guest via a memory map, but data shared this way cannot change during execution. The validity of the proof relies on its ability to guarantee that code executed in the prover has not been modified; we can think of adding live data here as a form of tampering that invalidates the proof transcript.
</details>
<br/>
<details closed>
<summary>
Q:
How do I know which computations can be offloaded to the host?
</summary>
<br/> 
A:

> Because RISC Zero’s zkVM guarantees that all code run in the VM can be trusted to behave as expected,  its value depends on the host being treated as potentially fully malicious. This means that any operations outsourced to the host should be verified in the zkVM.

Reviewer 3: "being treated as potentially fully malicious" = untrusted

> Because RISC Zero’s zkVM guarantees that all code run in the VM can be trusted to behave as expected,  its value depends on the host being treated as potentially fully malicious. This means that any operations outsourced to the host should be verified in the zkVM.

Reviewer 3: meaning of "its value" is unclear

Author: Rewording and expanding on this answer.

Author: @pdg744 Updated language, curious what you think of the new
